And everyone, welcome to the lecture.
And here we'll start with GDP.
So before moving on to Digital P, we'll just quickly formulate a recursion, which is very easy and
I love to see you all do it first.
After that, will, of course I will do it right.
So.
What is digital TV?
It's a short form of dynamic programming involving digit to all.
The GDP problems will be based on some numbers like from for example, from L2 are tell me how many
numbers have this particular property.
Right.
But there will be some properties and there will be some changes.
You have to tell between those range how many numbers satisfy this property.
For example, if I see how many numbers between ten and 20 are divisible by seven.
Right.
So of course, in this problem you want in this simple problem, you will most probably not apply to
GDP because it is simple.
It is currently by seven minus ten by 7 to 8.
But let's say if I change the property or update the property to the properties, tell me how many numbers
between some.
And what else do I order?
Diesel by seven.
Let's see.
Ah.
But it will be also according this problem by seven and.
They are some of digit.
What does this mean?
All those numbers, the numbers between the two, which are divided by seven and the sum of digits.
Let me try to do some digits.
I'd also do the opposite.
I'd also dubizzle by.
So is this a turkey problem?
Eight.
We know for three it satisfies this because for any number of three, it's some of the judge.
It also believes elementary eight.
But how can we find out for.
Our numbers are just seven eight.
Of course, we will have to code it and figure it out.
We'll see how you do all these types of problems.
I'll be taking ten plus different problems from the GDP, and we'll go from easy to hard and we'll see
how easy it is to solve the GDP problems.
It just sounds tricky.
It's actually not that tricky.
All of the GDP lies here.
We're in this in this question, right.
In this print.
Somebody tried using.
But what I'll do is I'll go ahead.
I've said I'll be using Regulation eight and indication.
What I'll do is I'll make the number digit by digit.
This is important.
I have to make the number digit birdie because when I make some numbers digit per digit, we are moving
on to each digit of those number.
And by moving on to each digit of those numbers, we can, of course keep information about the properties
that we want to satisfy.
For example, some eight and there will be many more because I'll be taking such examples in each of
the problem.
You'll see that there's a new property coming in and we have to satisfy the property will be storing
something, will be memorizing it and figuring out the problems.
Let me quickly raise this.
This is the most important part is this recursion, this simple recursion.
I will also go I would suggest to you to call it first.
Let's say I want to print all the numbers till two four, three, nine, eight the how we like it because
I will start from a zero.
I mean, on the first digit I will say put in zero.
It's I'm formulating a string.
I just say I'm just taking normal discussion late.
We have come.
If you read this point of the code of the course, you must have understood that.
The things are easy now, right?
You must be understanding a lot of things now.
And usually what I'll do is let them starting a regression digit where they do right.
I'm placing something on the first digit.
I have to make four digit numbers right on the first.
Real examples.
0/1 because I have to.
Family numbers from 0 to 8 in his late term, placing zero with how regression will work.
It will pay zero.
It will also try to place one.
Eight.
It will also try to place two on the first digit.
So on the four digit it will be zero one and two, but it will not place any number which is greater
than two on the first eight.
We just need to be very precise on what to put there.
Just I'll go slow, but please try to understand this part.
Initially, what will you do?
It will get me started this way.
Yeah.
This is empty.
It's a regression called zero regression called for integration.
Who knows if zero was pleased on the first part?
What else would be placed on this second wizard?
No, I'm just talking about this.
But that means zero is already placed.
Now, on the first part.
On the first place.
Now.
What are the numbers?
Can come here.
Zero can come here boots and one.
Come here.
Boots and two, come here.
Yes.
And three, come here.
Can four come here?
Yes.
In five communities or about five.
What does it mean there on this second place?
Can I place five?
If I placed zero in the first place.
Of course they did because any number of it starts from zero five and anything after it will be less
than 2439.
I will getting this point.
That means it completely depends that if you are placed a zero before then you can place any number
from 0 to 9 here.
0 to 9, and you can place any number from 0 to 9 here and you can place any number from zero 20.
I hope this is making sense.
Right.
So.
Let me quickly what we do, please.
These are the four digits.
They were place zero and any number from 0 to 9 029029 can comment all the other places.
Eight.
So.
Quickly we conclude this.
8029.
Any numbers?
Nowadays at about one.
What if one was placed at this facility?
If one was pleased on this first place, that means, again, any number from 0 to 9 can come in the
second place.
Eight, any number from 0 to 9 can come on the back in place.
And I know let's just worry about the second place and not the other places.
What if to what if towards place now in the first place?
So if two of please only first place I can keep zero on the second place I can keep one on the second
place I can keep you on the second place I can keep three on the second place.
But I cannot place food or can.
Yes, I can also place four on the second place.
Right but I cannot place five on the second place.
I we are getting this.
That means I can place zero one, two, three, four because any number of it starts from two and goes
still any zero one, two, three, four is finite.
But now I cannot place any number that is beyond or here I cannot place to five because now it will
be greater than two, four, eight.
I want to print only the numbers which are less than two for three as an equal two weakens it.
So as you can see here, we are trying to limit things, right.
And how do we limit things this limit is only based on?
Full body.
Now we know that I hope we are getting this right, that if it is any branch of the left subtree, that
means this is the lives of tree, but this is the rights of trees.
And now we know that this is the rightmost.
Okay.
Let me reset.
We can see that this is the rightmost part of it, which is to inflate.
Right.
But we have to limit artery.
We don't we can't you know say artery to go on forever from the right.
Most part we have to limit it now for example.
And discontinuing it further.
What any number from 0 to 9 here we can place all 0298.
We can place all 029029 similarly, all 029 will work all 0 to 9 here as well.
For this also we will place every 029029029.
And so on for three, four also.
But just think about this.
Five every one eight.
Sorry, not just five.
Because it is for me.
It is it.
Yeah.
This photo is the last one.
They.
Yeah.
Just think about this for.
Can I please.
And in a move from 0 to 9.
Because what about this particular part?
Initially we placed two, then we placed four.
And I cannot place any number from zero.
Tonight, I have to only place numbers between zero in the.
Because then only it will be less than two for three in the first three digits.
I we getting this right now.
Again, we have to limit it.
We cannot place numbers from zero tonight.
So this is again my last column.
I basically the rightmost branch of this tree always has to be limited.
That's the only point of the GDP we have to formulate all the numbers from.
Zero two.
I'm particular number eight and that can be any number.
We have to formulate all these numbers.
And for all these numbers, we are we need to have some properties.
And how will you formulate all the numbers from zero to let's say, ah, by limiting this tree, by
not asking this tree to go on forever.
Right.
So what will happen it.
Then.
Uh.
Okay.
So I placed four in the second place.
Now I can add the place.
Yeah.
Let me make that blue color.
I can play zero.
I can place fun.
I can play, too.
But when I plays for, it has to be a limited.
Or is it three?
Yeah.
If I place three on the right mouse, then it has to be limited again.
Now, again.
What will happen?
Whatever was formed after this, all of them will again use 0 to 9 all combinations of 8029029029 team.
What is this?
This all of them will use zero to name they were.
Now for these three we have the last number is nine the now this three can use zero and use one and
use two and so on till nine as we can see.
It is not only Indian, but let's see.
Let me take on the number.
Let's it is seven eight in the last digit.
So what will happen now that this will be limited to seven, that this particular call should not exceed
beyond seven?
What we need to do is while handling the GDP, right, handling this this particular problem that is
printing some numbers from zero two are the only thing that we need to handle is that whether it is
the last branch or not, if it is the last branch, then limit it to only the current digit.
Right?
And if it is not the last branch, then simply move from 0 to 9 and try all possible combinations,
then move from 0 to 9 to all possible combinations and so on.
So in the next we will cover this by keeping one extra variable, which is, let's call it last, which
will just tell me whether it is the rightmost branch of this tree or not, whether it is the last number
or not.
If it is the last number, that means the next, because of call should only go till the last number.
Otherwise it can go to zero two.
And I hope you understand this.
And in the next call this out after they will start actually dynamic digit Daniel programming this recursion
is very important to understand it will series.